# Portfolio_Projects Repository

This is a repository of all the projects displayed on my portfolio. These projects are here to display my level of proficiency in SQL, Python and more for potential employers.

Here is a list of the projects accompanied a short description, starting with Deep Learning Approach in Sea Surface Height Forecasting which is the thesis I wrote when I was a Master's student in Madrid studying Big Data Analytics.

## List of Projects:

> #### 1. Master's Thesis - Deep Learning Approach in Sea Surface Height Forecasting

The Philippines is among the most disaster-prone countries globally, with year-round typhoons causing devastating landslides and flooding. The Eastern Visayas region is particularly exposed to typhoons due to its positioning and typical pathing. This vulnerability is expected to worsen significantly in the coming decades due to global rising temperatures. This thesis proposes a machine learning approach to sea surface height forecasting for a portion of the Philippines covering Eastern Visayas. The study collects and uses satellite data covering the year 2017 on atmospheric and marine variables for training and testing several deep learning models' ability to forecast the last 4 weeks of sea surface height. The best-performing model is a bidirectional Gated Recurrent Unit network. The thesis concludes with a discussion on improving and developing an early warning system applicable in real-world scenarios.

<br/>

> #### 2. Python - Project

*Short description*

<br/>

> #### 3. R - Project

*Short description*

<br/>

> #### 4. SQL - Data Cleaning Project

This SQL project involves cleaning and standardizing data from a Nashville housing dataset. The script demonstrates several data cleaning techniques, including standardizing date formats, populating missing data using related records, breaking out address data into individual columns, and converting values in a specific column. The script also removes duplicate records and unused columns from the dataset. Overall, the project aims to improve the quality and consistency of the data for further analysis.

<br/>

> #### 5. Power BI - Data Professionals Survey Breakdown Project

This Power BI project consists of five Power BI dashboards that analyze the data collected from a survey on data professionals. The main dashboard presents the most important visualizations, including the total number of respondents, the favourite programming languages, and the average salary by job title. The other four dashboards focus on specific demographics, including age, industry, education, and ethnicity. Each dashboard contains various dynamic visualizations, such as bar charts, pie charts, and scatterplots, that allow the user to interact with the data and gain deeper insights. These visualizations provide a comprehensive view of the data collected from the survey, making it easier to understand the trends and patterns in the data. Note that only a pdf version of the dashboards is shown here, unfortunately in this format the visualisations lose their dynamism. To access the dashboards with the dynamism intact, feel free to reach out personally on linkedin or by email and I can provide the Power BI file directly.

<br/>

> #### 6. SQL - Data Exploration Project

This SQL project aims to explore COVID-19 data using SQL queries. The project begins by importing a dataset containing information on COVID-19 cases, deaths and vaccinations across the world. The script creates various views that allow for easier analysis of the data. The views include information on the likelihood of death if an individual contracts Covid-19 in a given country, the number of people that have contracted Covid-19 as a percentage of the population in a given location, and the countries with the highest infection and death rates. Overall, this script provides views to be used for visualisations in the Tableau project to allow for a comprehensive analysis of Covid-19 data.

<br/>

> #### 7. Tableau - COVID-19 Statistics Breakdown Project

This Tableau project consists of three Tableau dashboards created from the views generated by the SQL script in the SQL Data Exploration project. They offer a comprehensive and dynamic visual representation of the underlying data. The dashboards are designed to provide insightful analysis of different aspects of the data, such as cases, death and vaccination rates by country, through a comprehensive and dynamic visual representation. Each dashboard is composed of multiple interactive visualizations, such as line graphs, heatmaps, bar charts, and tables, that allow users to drill down into the data and gain deeper insights. With the intuitive user interface and powerful visualization capabilities of Tableau, the dashboards provide a user-friendly and engaging way to explore the data.

<br/>
